extras/CONFIG.md, before:

# Configuring projectable

Almost every behavior of projectable can be custommized through a simple `toml`
file.

To get started, run `prj --make-config` to create a new config file. Then, run
`prj --config` to get the location of your config file. Go to that directory,
and edit the TOML file.

Additionally, you can create _project local_ configurations. Just create a
`.projectable.toml` file anywhere, and it'll be merged with your global
configuration. This allows you to have specific commands depending on your
build system, programming language, and more!

## Commands

To create a new command, bound to a key, use the `commands` key of the
configuration. This will be a key-value pair value.

Here's an example:

```toml
commands = { "ctrl-e" = "echo Hello, World!" }
```

You can use [the command syntax](../README.md#command-syntax) for more dynamic
commands!

### Special Commands

In projectable, you may also define commands that change on a per-file basis.
By default, this is bound to `v`, but can be [changed](#keys).

For example, here's a possible configuration for a `Cargo.toml` file:

```toml
special_commands = { "Cargo.toml" = ["cargo add {...}", "cargo remove {...}", "cargo build"] }
```

When you press `v` while selecting a `Cargo.toml` file, projectable will prompt
you to run one of these commands!

The key part of the configuration accepts globs, so you could generalize this
to run with `Cargo.*` if you'd like this prompt to appear in lock file as well.

## Keys

Many of the default keybinds can be changed in projectable.

For example, if you'd like to change the default up/down selection keys, you
could do so with:

```toml
up = "up"
down = "down"
```

Changing the new file key could look like this:

```toml
[filetree]
new_file = "alt-n"
```

alt and ctrl are the only currently supported modifiers.

For the rest of the possible keybinds, see
[the entire configuration](#all-configuration-options).

## Colors

Like everything else, projectable's colorscheme can be completely user-defined!
"Colors" is a bit of a misnomer; projectable also allows you to control the
text style too, giving you the options of bold or italic text.

Here's an example of a possible color change:

```toml
selected = { color = "rgb(0, 0, 0)", bg = "#FFFFFF", mods = ["italic"] }

[filetree]
border_color = { color = "yellow" }
```

RGB and hex are both supported, along with a list of modifiers. Currently, only
italic and bold are available.

To see all possible color options, see
[the entire configuration reference](#all-configuration-options).

## External Preview Command

The projectable previewer uses two default pagers:

1. `cat` for Unix
2. `type` for Windows

This can be changed! For example, if you want to use
[bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat):

```toml
[preview]
preview_cmd = "bat --force-colorization --line-range 0:1000 {}"
```

The `--line-range` is not strictly necessary, but it helps to avoid slowdowns
on massive files.

### Git Pager

You can also modify the `git diff` pager. If you want to use
[delta](https://github.com/dandavison/delta), you can put this into your config:

```toml
[preview]
git_pager = "delta"
```

Your git preview command will become `git diff | delta`!

## All Configuration Options

These are the default configuration options for projectable. You can override
them as you wish!

Generally, the file is split up based on pane. For example, the pane that shows
all of your files corresponds to the `[filetree]` section of the file.

```toml
# General settings
project_roots = [".git"]
# Items of the form: `GLOB = [COMMAND]`
special_commands = {}
# Items of the form `KEY = COMMAND`
commands = {}

# Keys
up = "k"
down = "j"
quit = "q"
help = "?"
all_up = "g"
all_down = "G"
open = "enter"
# Kill processes started by projectable
kill_processes = "ctrl-c"

# General styles
selected = { color = "black", bg = "magenta" }
popup_border_style = { color = "white" }
help_key_style = { color = "lightcyan", mods = ["bold"] }

[preview]
# For unix, uses `type` for windows
preview_cmd = "cat {}"
# Optional git pager
# git_pager = "delta"
down_key = "ctrl-d"
up_key = "ctrl-u"
scroll_amount = 10

border_color = { color = "cyan" }
scroll_bar_color = { color = "magenta" }
# Unreached part of the scroll bar
unreached_bar_color = { color = "blue" }

[filetree]
# Whether to show git diffs
use_git = true
# Ignore certain globs
ignore = []
use_gitignore = true
refresh_time = 1000
dirs_first = true
show_hidden_by_default = false

# Keys
special_command = "v"
down_three = "ctrl-n"
up_three = "ctrl-p"
exec_cmd = "e"
delete = "d"
search = "/"
# Clear filters (like the git filter)
clear = '\'
new_file = "n"
new_dir = "N"
rename = "r"
git_filter = "T"
diff_mode = "t"
open_all = "o"
close_all = "O"
mark_selected = "m"
open_under = "l"
close_under = "h"
show_dotfiles = "."

# Colors
dir_style = { color = "blue", mods = ["italic"] }
filtered_out_message = { color = "yellow" }
border_color = { color = "magenta" }
# Color of git added files
git_added_style = { color = "green" }
git_new_style = { color = "red" }
git_modified_style = { color = "cyan" }
# Color of marked files
marks_style = { color = "yellow" }

[log]
border_color = { color = "blue" }

info = { color = "white" }
error = { color = "red" }
debug = { color = "green" }

# Only shown when run with the --debug option
warn = { color = "red" }
trace = { color = "magenta" }

[marks]
# Whether to show marks as relative paths or not
relative = true
open = "M"
delete = "d"

# Color of marks in marks window
mark_style = { color = "white" }
```

Commit message:

docs(CONFIG): add my configuration

extras/CONFIG.md, after:

# Configuring projectable

Almost every behavior of projectable can be custommized through a simple `toml`
file.

To get started, run `prj --make-config` to create a new config file. Then, run
`prj --config` to get the location of your config file. Go to that directory,
and edit the TOML file.

Additionally, you can create _project local_ configurations. Just create a
`.projectable.toml` file anywhere, and it'll be merged with your global
configuration. This allows you to have specific commands depending on your
build system, programming language, and more!

## Commands

To create a new command, bound to a key, use the `commands` key of the
configuration. This will be a key-value pair value.

Here's an example:

```toml
commands = { "ctrl-e" = "echo Hello, World!" }
```

You can use [the command syntax](../README.md#command-syntax) for more dynamic
commands!

### Special Commands

In projectable, you may also define commands that change on a per-file basis.
By default, this is bound to `v`, but can be [changed](#keys).

For example, here's a possible configuration for a `Cargo.toml` file:

```toml
special_commands = { "Cargo.toml" = ["cargo add {...}", "cargo remove {...}", "cargo build"] }
```

When you press `v` while selecting a `Cargo.toml` file, projectable will prompt
you to run one of these commands!

The key part of the configuration accepts globs, so you could generalize this
to run with `Cargo.*` if you'd like this prompt to appear in lock file as well.

## Keys

Many of the default keybinds can be changed in projectable.

For example, if you'd like to change the default up/down selection keys, you
could do so with:

```toml
up = "up"
down = "down"
```

Changing the new file key could look like this:

```toml
[filetree]
new_file = "alt-n"
```

alt and ctrl are the only currently supported modifiers.

For the rest of the possible keybinds, see
[the entire configuration](#all-configuration-options).

## Colors

Like everything else, projectable's colorscheme can be completely user-defined!
"Colors" is a bit of a misnomer; projectable also allows you to control the
text style too, giving you the options of bold or italic text.

Here's an example of a possible color change:

```toml
selected = { color = "rgb(0, 0, 0)", bg = "#FFFFFF", mods = ["italic"] }

[filetree]
border_color = { color = "yellow" }
```

RGB and hex are both supported, along with a list of modifiers. Currently, only
italic and bold are available.

To see all possible color options, see
[the entire configuration reference](#all-configuration-options).

## External Preview Command

The projectable previewer uses two default pagers:

1. `cat` for Unix
2. `type` for Windows

This can be changed! For example, if you want to use
[bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat):

```toml
[preview]
preview_cmd = "bat --force-colorization --line-range 0:1000 {}"
```

The `--line-range` is not strictly necessary, but it helps to avoid slowdowns
on massive files.

### Git Pager

You can also modify the `git diff` pager. If you want to use
[delta](https://github.com/dandavison/delta), you can put this into your config:

```toml
[preview]
git_pager = "delta"
```

Your git preview command will become `git diff | delta`!

## All Configuration Options

These are the default configuration options for projectable. You can override
them as you wish! You can check out
[my configuration](../src/config_defaults/_my_config.toml), too.

Generally, the file is split up based on pane. For example, the pane that shows
all of your files corresponds to the `[filetree]` section of the file.

```toml
# General settings
project_roots = [".git"]
# Items of the form: `GLOB = [COMMAND]`
special_commands = {}
# Items of the form `KEY = COMMAND`
commands = {}

# Keys
up = "k"
down = "j"
quit = "q"
help = "?"
all_up = "g"
all_down = "G"
open = "enter"
# Kill processes started by projectable
kill_processes = "ctrl-c"

# General styles
selected = { color = "black", bg = "magenta" }
popup_border_style = { color = "white" }
help_key_style = { color = "lightcyan", mods = ["bold"] }

[preview]
# For unix, uses `type` for windows
preview_cmd = "cat {}"
# Optional git pager
# git_pager = "delta"
down_key = "ctrl-d"
up_key = "ctrl-u"
scroll_amount = 10

border_color = { color = "cyan" }
scroll_bar_color = { color = "magenta" }
# Unreached part of the scroll bar
unreached_bar_color = { color = "blue" }

[filetree]
# Whether to show git diffs
use_git = true
# Ignore certain globs
ignore = []
use_gitignore = true
refresh_time = 1000
dirs_first = true
show_hidden_by_default = false

# Keys
special_command = "v"
down_three = "ctrl-n"
up_three = "ctrl-p"
exec_cmd = "e"
delete = "d"
search = "/"
# Clear filters (like the git filter)
clear = '\'
new_file = "n"
new_dir = "N"
rename = "r"
git_filter = "T"
diff_mode = "t"
open_all = "o"
close_all = "O"
mark_selected = "m"
open_under = "l"
close_under = "h"
show_dotfiles = "."

# Colors
dir_style = { color = "blue", mods = ["italic"] }
filtered_out_message = { color = "yellow" }
border_color = { color = "magenta" }
# Color of git added files
git_added_style = { color = "green" }
git_new_style = { color = "red" }
git_modified_style = { color = "cyan" }
# Color of marked files
marks_style = { color = "yellow" }

[log]
border_color = { color = "blue" }

info = { color = "white" }
error = { color = "red" }
debug = { color = "green" }

# Only shown when run with the --debug option
warn = { color = "red" }
trace = { color = "magenta" }

[marks]
# Whether to show marks as relative paths or not
relative = true
open = "M"
delete = "d"

# Color of marks in marks window
mark_style = { color = "white" }
```
